hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstoday.com
i'm your host dylan grabowski this
episode of the smart economy podcast is
part of the inaugural series focusing on
decentralized autonomous organizations
better known as daos
in episode 2 of the dao series i chat
with claude mueller and gill machado
senior software engineers at axelabs
axelabs is responsible for maintaining
neo3j a java-based development toolkit
for building dapps and smart contracts
in the neo ecosystem the labs team also
built the grant chairs dow
infrastructure and is currently
maintaining the code base grant shares
is a dow comprised of neos developer
communities that manage a treasury
funded by the neo foundation
and it is designed to distribute funding
to grassroots developers and projects
that benefit the ecosystem
in this conversation
gil claude and i discuss their open
source code philosophy the thought
processes that went into the development
of the grant shares dow
how interested individuals can propose
projects for dow funding the project
proposal lifecycle and much more just a
reminder nothing said on this podcast is
a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
financial advice
and that the host or guests may hold
tokens discussed in any given episode
with that said i really enjoyed chatting
with gil and claude and i hope you enjoy
the conversation too
awesome well today we are joined by
two members from axe labs we have claude
and gill on the line how are you guys
doing today uh doing good yeah great
great stuff
really excited to have you guys on this
is gonna be an episode that's part of
the recently rebranded
smart economy podcast and we were just
talking about the recording about how
the new
podcast is really going to focus on
series and leveraging different voices
from multiple different blockchain
ecosystems so while you aren't the first
interview for the series you guys are
the first uh neo ecosystem folks for the
smart economy podcast to talk about dows
so before we kind of launch into
your experience with dows and grant
shares and everything you guys hope to
achieve let's just rewind for a quick
second and for somebody who has never
listened to the neo news today podcast
or now the smart economy podcast and has
never read any of our articles about you
guys could you just tell new listeners a
quick background
about who you are and what acts labs is
and we'll start with you first gil and
then we'll ask claude yeah sure so
xlabs is a small company we are like
three guys and our primarily uh primary
focus is in the blockchain decentralized
solutions
we are a bunch of uh guys which have
passion about open source
and um you know doing things and
building things which are open to the
public and that people will use
and have fun of course that's the most
important thing when when building
things yeah yeah i've noticed uh you
guys really rely heavily on the bongo
cat which is uh which is always fun to
take a look at
so claude you're not by any means new to
the neo ecosystem you've been here for a
handful of years and you've been with
axe labs the whole time but i've never
like quite got the origin story so how
did you
learn about neo and how did you get
hooked up with axe labs and
uh over the years what has your role
kind of grown into yeah so i've been uh
with neo and with axe labs for
for almost three years or a bit more
than three years already and
gila and i we met at a university when i
was still studying she was already
getting into neo and i just heard about
neo and other blockchains of course i
mean not not neo first i mean other
blockchains first probably like
bitcoin and ethereum
and what have you and uh through gil i
got to know neo and yeah he needed he
needed people to help him uh to develop
tools on neo because i mean he's the
idealist he's uh he's always
always has a vision on on how things
should be and um
and really has that idealism that is
that you need probably in the blockchain
world to sustain
and
so yeah that's that pulled me in and so
i've been been helping out for for the
last three years building developer
tools with him and um also with with
michael who's our third colleague
and in the beginning i was just focusing
on the r3j
which
is the the
bongo cat that you mentioned which is
our logo for that library for that sdk
and
while developing that library and now my
my role went more into like shifted a
bit i'm still um maintaining the library
but that work is mostly taking over
michael now
and i'm focusing more on on products
actually building on the neo blockchain
which for example yeah grant shares
which we'll be talking about of course
and i'm happy that i have more
organizational uh tasks as well now so
it's not only detailed programming it's
also it's it's a bit more versatile now
yeah very cool um i noticed in recent
communications that axelabs has put out
that
the grant shares dow was built off of
the the kind of suite of tools and sdks
and libraries you guys have already
built over the past few years
so could you maybe just share a little
bit
gil about um kind of the composability
or the lego blocks of the work that
you've done and how that allowed you to
build grant shares which we'll go into
in a moment yeah thanks for calling me
an idealist i we i think you
um i i try to to be a bit of a false
like idealist and like a guy which is
very pragmatic in in building things so
uh yeah it seems that i accomplished so
so in the beginning
we
we just built an l2j we were in this in
the space of building the
software for java and kotlin developers
in the new space and then
we said okay we have to build the sdk
and sdk is something that you you you
can call back ends for example to
interact with with the new blockchain
but and then after after
like shipping this um still in the new
legacy in the previous version of the
new blockchain we realized okay we can
do a bit more uh why we don't do a
compiler which is basically a software
where you can write smart contracts and
in writing smart contracts compiling
them uh being written in in in java and
then uh deploying in a new blockchain so
we we say okay let's do it and then
that's that's when we said we basically
focus on the a java compiler uh for the
neo n3 blockchain which is the new
version of um of new evolution of neo
okay so then we we're pretty happy with
the results uh the community just uh we
gotta take attention from the community
people started using it from the first
hackathon uh last year and then we start
talking within our community on
like maybe doing a another project that
we could uh use the l3j uh the sdk and
the compiler in all our knowledge of new
uh to build um something with it so
adapt
and and then that's uh that's basically
our goal is is to to eat our own dog
food so in the end in the end like me
and claudia say man we should be pretty
excited doing this because we started
like really low level from really doing
a compiler an sdk and then going to the
application layer and then using all our
libraries all the stuff that are built
to do something meaningful for the end
users out there yeah that's really cool
it's like um you built all all these
tools and then you decided it's time to
put the work that you put into the test
and uh what a hefty test that your
previous experience was put towards
because
when the idea for grant shares was
floated
your team was
ball and told or the task was landed on
onto your plate so
i guess just a a brief preview before we
go into details
grant shares is a dow
that will be distributing funding uh
that is initially seated by the neo
foundation for grassroots developers to
apply to
and a series of individuals from the neo
community will vote on these uh
proposals and for anyone who's been in
the neo ecosystem for a handful of years
you'll recognize these communities that
will vote on the proposals like coz neo
news today axe labs neo foundation ngd
enterprise next uh red for sec
neo spcc sorry from forgetting any other
communities but i'm just trying to
highlight that these are individuals
that people from the community might
know now before we go into more
specifics about grant shares this is a
series on dowse
and i want the listener to walk away
after listening to these episodes on
this series
uh having a good understanding of what
dows are and
dows are kind of like art you can't uh
define it but you can say what it is
when you see it so i kind of want to
pull your guys's ears because you've
done a lot of research in this realm
after you were tasked with building
grant shares last summer so i don't know
which one of you want to start first but
basically
can you just tell me what your
definition of a dao is
so thou what is now like what is a crown
of now is the centralized autonomous
organization and then like in my in my
in my perception in my definition uh
using my own words a dao it's it's
basically an entity which is uh have a
purpose
and should have some governance attached
to it uh of course should have this the
purpose maybe should attach to
incentives uh like um either financial
or non-financial uh so in in in this
entity will be uh who can see organized
uh in the decentralized way
through this governance and through
these incentives and the purpose
uh so this whole phenomenon you just
started in in the in like deploying a
smart contract uh where you could
create proposals in in the smart
contract and then the proposals can be
executed and enforced in the smart
contract so um this is like a kind of
very a summary of what is down and what
what why do you compose it down but of
course you can extrapolate on this and
then uh go to the real world and how
those are organized and maybe i mean
maybe you're going to bring some other
uh folks here in this dial series to
talk about about that in more detail and
but that's what i have like the
definition that i have in mind i don't
know if you want to complement the club
yeah i would pick up where we left off
with uh with the word purpose where i
think that that dolls
are an organization that form around a
purpose of a community um so it's about
collaboration and this is like the
broadest definition that you can give
like any every organization probably
forms around
some purpose where
collaboration is needed to to get there
and uh so that i i would stick to that
definition where where dao is is a
organization for collaboration um for
for people
or for coordinating these people to
reach a common goal and
usually
like in let's say in the old world
this often requires a lot of trust into
each other you know either you're a
community that lives at this in the same
location and and so you know everybody
and and that's why you trust each other
or you have some middlemen that help you
so that you don't actually need trust
between yourself and other people of
your organization that you don't that
you maybe don't see regularly or you
never actually get to know but you still
kind of try to work
together to a common goal and
with the dao you can i think the
advantage of the dow would be then that
you can that you can remove this
necessary trust for i mean not for
not with every um community that has
like certain goals there you just kind
of need a lot of
work
a lot of interaction with other people
where you cannot rely totally on
on code and automation but i think dows
can can add a lot to
helping organizations getting like
improving their collaboration yeah i
think something that's really
interesting is the concept of daos
aren't necessarily
new
it's just the technology like
uh if you look at america's foundings
you know people were escaping religious
persecution
and they organized as a group and
decided to move to a new country so
you've had these ideas of communities
forming based off of idealism and acting
on that idealism for
centuries now maybe even all of humanity
if like you start talking about hunting
and gathering and why people would
collect because they needed to get food
to survive so
really in my perspective what the unique
thing that dals are bringing is it's
just now this technology layer where you
can
disintermediate or remove the
centralized figure
so i'm wondering if in
your research what are some examples of
dows that you guys came across because
there's so many types out there this
isn't just a one size solution fits all
so could you just share a little bit
more about that yeah like um
so just before going to the examples i
think that's um i don't know if i have
said that before but this is an
unpopular opinion that i have which is
um basically we already live in our
society in democratic societies in a dao
but without the ledger the technology
powering it so it's um this is this this
is really interesting and it goes um
along the lines of what you're saying
what is that dylan but i mean going to
examples yeah there are quite a few so
uh for example git coin down is um is a
good example
but uh there are
artists which are which started this
this whole phenomena of dao and nowadays
you don't talk about them so much for
example it's maker now
so i think like i said other day that i
like to
to listen to to guys um
when they're speakers in conferences uh
from these dials which are a bit older
because they have like real problems to
deal with in the real world so um a
typical example will be uh okay so you
have a dow you form it down you have
like all the members but um in in they
have a smart contract they have their
treasury and
voting proposals and forcing the
proposal etc but besides the dow
you have to interface with the real
world and um and then
you you need to have a domain name and
who should be the owner of that domain
name and uh well i mean what's the
how you solve that
you're going to centralize one person so
so so well i'm going a bit out of out of
the topic here but examples are like
maker down git point now brand shares of
course but we're going to talk later
about it can you help me cloud well i
would go into more abstract uh direction
instead of um naming
like examples like concrete examples um
i'd start with what kinds of dials we
have
where when i see that the most common
kind of tao is is one
that is used for funding things
so i mean the maker dial was also one of
those
and
one one um prominent one is the the
molotow you probably know that one that
was also made for
it's kind of
for investing into into projects in the
crypto space
uh so many many dows or probably many
early dolls were were only focusing on
that where it was about how can you um
collect money in an organization and
then distribute it according to the
organization's
wishes basically
that's that's pretty
you know it's still easy cases where
where you only have to
decide
where money is going and you can put
money into the though and you can take
money out of it
and uh and you you decide to be a
proposal is where that money should go
um but then if you if you want to mimic
a whole organization like an
organization
like ngd or
google even
which is probably a bit too big to start
with now but still like a normal company
then you need total new mechanisms that
are not they're not part of these
funding dials that we have seen so far
and um like it's a pity i don't i don't
haven't looked into
more complex dials yet
like i guess shape-shift for example is
one of those and there you need
much more
like you need to
somehow define rules for for all the
interactions that the people of the dao
can have so all this collaboration that
can happen inside of the organization's
organization needs to needs to be
written down into rules and
well we don't know if that's possible
for for all the interactions and if it's
even necessary maybe also needs a kind
of or a type of person to
to work in this in these dials so that
the dao actually works seamlessly or you
just need to
give like culture a bit such that people
get adapted to this new concept where
everybody's pretty much
self-managing or groups or self-managing
themselves even though they're part of a
bigger organization but they don't have
to be managed by one overseer of the
organization
as it is in in older companies and old
structures
yeah
the reason i ask is because uh you guys
have done a lot more research um you
know despite the fact that i've been
writing about neo for four years and
been in the blockchain space like i
still feel as if i know very little
about dows
from my angle my perspective they seem
to be mostly treasury focused so you
know a lot of people contribute um a
cryptocurrency
and then the amount of cryptocurrency
they contributed to the dao determines
what their stake for a vote is
and so
with some dows you are funding open
source developers who are making
proposals for funds similar to what
grant shares and what molok dao does but
then you have maker dao which is
uh one of the ogs one of the first ones
that's been around and they're focusing
on on managing their treasury because
there's
a stable coin that's associated with
that project but then you also have
and this really happened last year the
the new emergence of
kind of
idealism
focused daos and i'm talking about like
constitution dao which was a group of
people who
put together a bunch of funding to buy
one of the only privately held physical
copies of the us constitution
they ended up losing to some
rich millionaire uh centralized entity
but it really highlighted that a group
of people can come together behind an
idealistic vision which was also
something that
i found interesting in what you were
saying gil because
to put together a team for a live
auction
you need to have legal experts you need
to have people on the ground
you need to have individuals who know
how to operate inside these traditional
realms
so you have this this weird like
marriage of
figuring out how to incorporate these
decentralized aenons who are voting with
their cryptocurrencies but then also
deciding who to put your trust into
to carry out the vision of the dao
so it's kind of interesting that
and this is only a year old you know
constitution dao laser dao is another
one that uh purchases artwork based on a
philosophy on an idealism so
i don't think there's a real answer yet
for like what are the different types of
doubts out there but you know you guys
were tasked with building the grand
shares dow so
before we go into grant shares and other
than just funding developers what are
some opportunities that dao's can bring
to this world i mean you as i said like
you have many many types
of downs
one example that x labs were
was recently involved by working in
doing some
coding and organizing things for it is
uh one of one now so 101 um that
and 101.works so basically it's an nfc
dial it's a smart contract where
there are many members in this in this
now and then we decide which nfts we
will buy uh we're acquired uh which ones
are going to sell it put it in into sale
and uh the the structure of this dow for
example is that you hire uh specialized
people um on on ongoing and evolating
nfts uh checking if and basically
working for the dao
and then and then of course they should
be rewarded and all stuff i mean 101 is
is is being developed um is xlab is not
the primarily um driver of this of
course um is a dialectic but um
we were there like in in part in in in
the beginning and uh i think it's a good
example of things that goes outside of
um just
grants or
in yeah deciding how the treasury should
look like et cetera i mean there are
other things like ens
ens is also a good example of dao which
goes a bit um away because then
you can you can have proposals and you
can delegate your your vote uh to to
other people from the ens the ethereum
name service um a community to decide on
i don't know configurations of dns
adding
maybe a second level domains um in this
kind of things i'm not so so much into
it but i i have a bunch of ens uh tokens
of course and then i i once in a while i
checked how what the guys are doing
there
but then then there there's like another
example which is basically a radical
radical um which is a very interesting
project i don't know so much about them
i have also i'm personally i'm a bit
exposed on radical but um
radical is building communities or like
dolls which you can form
open source projects
that the development is transparent the
code is transparent but also the
projects uh should be transparent in a
dial in centralized so so there you can
create sub-dials um i think representing
if i'm not mistaken uh representing like
open source projects and then people can
can work in this open source project etc
i mean i'm not so into it i'm just
talking here by what i've got in this in
the conference from the past and on
stuff but i remember that claude was in
in the same conference and uh i think it
was ecc in the past and uh i mean both
of us we were really impressed with uh
with radical and in the
what they've built yeah i mean
everything is so nascent so even just um
the folks you've talked to or or the
white papers you've read or anything
like that is super helpful because
you're now the de facto
experts for daos and the neo ecosystem
so axelabs
built the infrastructure for grant
shares
before we kind of get into
like the details for
the code and the architecture and all
that i guess maybe
you can tell our audience a little bit
about
in your words
what grand shares is and when did you
guys start working on
on the architecture and this can even go
dating back to
the first bit of research you started
yeah so
grant shares
is
following in the in the footsteps of the
already existing neo eco support
programs where where neo has funds set
up to spend grants on on projects or on
teams
on research and so on but there it's
it's pretty centralized in the sense
that
the near foundation has a say on where
these these funds go right and it's a
bit in transparent i would say for for
us for the long-term community members
who don't see the proposals that have
that are um sent to to these grant
programs and so the idea with grant
shares is to have a more transparent
and a more decentralized um grants
program so grand chess is basically a
grants program as it is in the name
obviously and
and well of course it makes sense then
to
to use our tools and to use the new
blockchain to build this on a blockchain
and to build it as a as a decentralized
organization and when did you guys
start working on grant shares because
these types of things don't happen
overnight so could you just it's like an
iceberg you know we only see the tip of
the iceberg but there was a lot of work
that went into this so could you just
share a little bit about when you
started researching for the architecture
and kind of like what the process was
like getting to here yeah so
well gil correct me if i'm wrong i think
we started in in october or was it even
earlier it was like october
and um yeah we started with the
architecture there and there we had a
lot of discussions going on and we
already tried to involve as many
community members as possible especially
from the long-term community members
like coz and n t and these these parties
and then we already realized how
things probably take a bit longer yeah
if you try to do a decentralized from
the beginning and try to have many
opinions on it and then at some point it
like it kind of became clear to us that
you cannot discuss it forever you just
you know at some point you don't know in
theory how it's going to work out if the
incentives are correctly if if we need
more security
and other features of the dao and then
so you just decided to go ahead and
implement it and try it out and
and that's where we're at i mean
since then
we've been designing and and at towards
the end of the year we started
implementing and yeah maybe gili have
something to say about this
yeah that's exactly i i was going to
interrupt but um i could hold myself for
telling more about this
yeah that's exactly how it happened
because this this pragmatic approach
that we took um is i think what is one
of the success factors uh that we expect
to have uh because we we have to start
that's important thing we have to start
and then like when i was uh discussing
in the endless discussions with claude
uh about um i mean who should who who'll
be the members of this town
like should we uh should we have like
the community as um as members should we
have a token to represent the decision
power and in like voting based on tokens
how we should do it and then like we
just uh let's take um a rather more
conservative approach in like in the
beginning to because this is an
experiment guys like um
it's not
doesn't mean that just because you have
like thousands of downs out there that
your dow will you're going to make it
right and everything will be beautiful
and people are going to use it so
let's we decided let's go step by step
more conservative having a set of
community members which uh already know
the new ecosystem uh should be to to
make the decision power of this dial and
then uh maybe in future we're gonna
maybe we're gonna talk about this but
maybe future gonna add other trenches of
the human power uh to to go with it and
having a token maybe or whatever
so
yeah that's basically how how it evolved
over time but just to to complete my
line of thought on my line of thinking
is is grand chairs basically
it's also to give more agility i know
that having a dial does always mean to
have agility in ecosystem because you
have like a proposal you have voting
period and it takes weeks but
getting getting all these people and and
say go there to our website make a
proposal and uh let's do it so
historically if like a grassroots level
developer wanted to apply for funding in
the neo ecosystem they would have to go
to neo foundation
and there are
issues associated with applying for
funding from a centralized entity you're
mostly on their timeline
and
you hinted and alluded to this claude
that there's a lack of transparency
simply because it's the decision-making
is being made behind a walled garden so
what are some of the
constraints that dao's will have if
somebody's applying for funding
you know like there's always a trade-off
you know for everything good there's
always something bad that comes and so
what's good with this is that the
community can choose to support
grassroots developers which is a
positive but if we want to be realistic
what are some like perceived
constraints that you guys envision will
uh be attached with grant shares
as people apply for funding could just
implement
protective mechanisms that that hold
that ward of
people from from flooding the system do
you envision that there are any sort of
issues with like puppet accounts being
created or civil attacks is this
something that you're concerned about or
you've seen in other
dows
obviously it is a concern
but um
there is no there's no gain for the for
the proposer in that you know it uh
it will cost something i mean you still
have to pay gas fees so it's not for
free and we have i like we have we can
we can quickly implement small
mechanisms that that can ward off um the
the easiest attacks if we want to and so
that's one point where we decided we'll
just go and see how it works out
how tough is the world actually and then
and we'll see on lunch how how that is
yeah just uh just correct me uh claude
or just uh compliment my answer that i
think that the endorsed mechanism that
we built around grand chairs uh is one
one of the mechanisms to
to future or to prevent civil attacks in
a larger scale because
because the situation is nowadays let me
explain to the audience that uh grain
shares
we decided to go
like from a very to non-complex kind of
dow
and then evolve over time so what i mean
with that we have now a set of members
that these members will
take part on voting
in deciding if a proposal could pass or
not this proposal can be of any kind is
not only a proposal to uh
a request for funding but it can be a
proposal for uh add a new member to the
dow or to remove a new a member of the
from the dao or to uh white list a token
in the treasury or to release you know
some money from the treasury to
somewhere else because the proposals are
kind of like generic and then and then
this is this one of the
is this kind of
like this initial set of members will
have the power to to to vote and do it
but another function of these members is
between doors
uh when a proposal just come to on on
the table
and comes to the dow uh at least one
member should embarrass it otherwise the
proposal will not go
go on on this life cycle
so the voting will not gonna happen um
if if if the proposal was was uh is not
endorsed by x labs or clz or nnt so this
is one one of mechanisms that we can
block in future you know civil attacks
and this kind of thing yeah it's really
interesting the more we get into these
kind of new models that blockchain is
empowering
the more i realize that we go back to
this this term that others have coined
layer 0 which is the social element
of the people that are participating in
these networks
and
i think sometimes it can be
easy to
forget about this because we get so
excited about the tech and the code but
ultimately we're just creating tools for
people to communicate collaborate and
create and make decisions together so
that's really interesting that you guys
kind of thought about this and it the uh
ability for a voting member to kind of
approve
a proposal before it gets voted on
is interesting because it relies on a
somebody caring enough to read through
the proposal and then saying hey you
guys should vote on this but secondly it
also acts as like a level of
vetting the project so that if you do
have all these civil attacks of just
nonsense projects
you can just have somebody who has an
hour free go through and say that you
know we're not gonna support this
project
so we've kind of talked a little bit
about the infrastructure and the
research that you guys have done on
grant shares and how grant shares is
going to be a funding mechanism for
grassroots developers
could you just tell us a little bit
about the process of what this looks
like
what is the walkthrough look like so
let's say
i want to have bitcoin added to the
treasury and i want to propose this
what's this going to look like for me uh
making this proposal well it's it's not
there yet but there's going to be adapt
page of course so the grand shares dab
will be your central point of
interaction for this
it starts with creating proposals so
like we said before the entry barrier
should be low so
one of the major pages of the dab is
creating proposal
and
we wanted to make it even free at the
beginning where you can create a
proposal without having having to pay
gas
so you will
first when you create a proposal you
will only generate a discussion
somewhere like somewhere being get up in
the case of grant shares we will uh
create a discussion issue for you and
that's where the discussion happens so
your your proposal um first doesn't sit
on chain it sits on github and that's
where you have to start and get your get
the grenaches members intrigued and also
other community members like anybody can
can take part in discussion of course
but we wanted to have a discussion
platform that's a bit more structured
than just having a discord server for
this stuff and from there
like you said you have the endorsement
mechanism so if you just create
proposals that nobody wants um it will
just expire after some time and without
anybody endorsing it and then your
proposal is useless and um after you
found
like people or grandchildren's members
are interested in your proposal
you can create it on chain if you want
it like anybody could create it on chain
but why you know the one who created the
discussion in the in the first place
probably is interested in creating an
unchain
and this then
kicks off the process on chain um still
all happening through the depth of
course you don't have to go and
create commands through the command line
or anything and
then the proposal is endorsed by a grand
shares member this kicks off the voting
phase if you get enough votes um from
the members then your proposal passes
you just have to wait a little while
after it passes after the voting phase
before you can execute it and so at the
moment like we intend to set this time
for uh seven days of voting phase and
then three days uh of of a time lock
phase
until you can actually execute a
proposal and i don't mean to interrupt
but why did you guys add a time lock
after the proposal has been approved
that's that's something that's
interesting yeah this is just because we
chickened out of not doing it
this is a
it's a it's basically a security
mechanism to to have a period where
once things get serious because the
proposal has been has been
accepted and once you execute proposal
the things that happen through the
proposal like the actions that that are
taken through the proposal layer there
encode it in the proposal it's not just
okay yeah we voted yes now let's do
something manually it's okay everybody
voted yes and now this is executed
automatically and so that's why we have
this timelock phase where the community
or the community the grandchild's
members still have time to wake up and
see holy this is gonna break
everything and then they have time to
pause the contract basically and and
then um the proposal cannot be executed
it's a worst case scenario no exactly
it's also in other dials uh you also
have this time lock phase um because
present me on other dials where uh it's
about uh defy or
yeah whatever you can sell your tokens
you can if you you if you were part of
the decision power of this dow and
you're not satisfied by the decision
that it was made i mean maybe maybe
you're abstaining the vote or maybe you
voted no against it so you have like a
bit of time to leave the dial so it's
not only a security mechanism as follows
mentioning i think i mean this is
something that you can you you give a
equal opportunity for all of them to get
used to the decision that it was taken
yeah that's really interesting
and it's not something that
you think about when people think like
oh a smart contract and and the
decisions made instantly but when things
come to funding it's nice to have kind
of that fail-safe uh in case like
somebody does
act in a malicious manner to
you know get more funding than than they
had initially proposed i'm not sure what
that would look like on the back end so
i can't really kind of pull that thread
a little bit more but something that you
did mention earlier was
aggregating conversations in a way
that's easier to follow along and
this is only the second conversation
i've had on daos but this is a theme
that that is
has carried over from the second co from
the previous conversation i had so
this is great that you have this
entity where people can communicate on
github but there's also got to be an
easier way for people to speak in an
informal manner so i kind of have two
questions
a is the conversations that are held on
github is that
metadata gonna be stored in the hash
associated with the proposal so that
people can
scour
scour an explorer and find this proposal
and then go back to the conversations
and then b
are there any plans to
create an informal chat server for
people to talk about proposals
so the first question if the
discussion is available through the the
on-chain proposal is the answer is yes
so i mean obviously the two things are
linked
the on-chain proposal is linked to the
off-chain discussion but
of course we know that github the
discussion that happens on github is
that's like a decentralized a not decent
that's a centralized service
so if get up goes and deletes all the
discussion then we don't have that data
anymore so if we wanted to have um
more control or like decentralized
control over that uh with the discussion
data and then we would have to copy it
you know to neofs
would be the first thing to do of course
but yeah these things are linked um the
discussion is linked to the proposal in
the in the unchained proposal and um
for the second question
at the moment we were not planning to
have an unstructured discussion
somewhere because like that that goes
into the direction what i was saying um
before where
where the concern
in in such taos is that that you don't
have enough um
right i don't find a word you know that
that people don't take part and if you
have multiple
channels where where things are going on
then then i think much information when
people already have problems with their
attention anyway i mean myself as well
my attention goes so many places
and i'm always um
trying to manage my attention better and
so we should i think we should try to
channel
to only have one channel actually for
for this discussion where people can
focus on and don't need to worry about
in like lost information somewhere else
yeah voting is
one of those things that it's almost
impossible to get people to do
but then the decision
it makes everybody upset afterwards i
try not to get too political but like
this
became very apparent to me after trump
got elected in america
less than 50 percent of the population
voted but during that time frame it felt
like almost everyone had an opinion
so you have this issue where voting is
really important but people don't
participate in it and then afterwards
they have a lot of opinions about it but
they had a chance to
kind of participate in the early matters
so that's kind of a wicked problem i
remember talking about that at the neo
community assembly in 2019
this does not seem to have been
something that changes over time it
seems like it's human nature like this
is part of of the developments in the
dao world as having a good medium for
for the discussion
is is like one of the most important
things i think and there are projects
that are trying to create tooling for
that uh i forgot the names right now but
um
where you basically try to
extract the the intentions of the
community like of lots of comments and
you try to extract some some fundamental
uh
you know couple of sentences or
something that the sentiment of the
community out of a huge discussion and
uh and trying to
thereby come up with with um
you know maybe a yes or no um sentiment
or even you know multiple cases
yeah yeah i think i think like the the
project that you're trying to to
remember the name claude is the name is
voxibrate voxibre.com
so like uh me and claude we we even met
uh some time ago um with lily one of
like the founder of this project um and
uh basically they
they have like a lot of uh experience on
um
deliberation in in european
uh union and this kind of thing and uh
they would like to
establish a tool where
you could better communicate and make
decisions uh on um
in a chat or in written formats one of
the reasons for this is that all the
tools that you have now um github or
discord or
slack or name it telegram they're not
meant to be for decision making uh and
for the communities uh in a structured
way etc so
yeah we we were talking with voxerbread
to be really honest uh to see if they
could maybe fit as a dab or uh
go to the new ecosystem to also help us
uh but i mean this the stocks are
ongoing let's see how it goes but i mean
yeah so just just some summary like you
you have the off chain and home chain uh
discussions and things
but uh the off chain talking
specifically about grant shares we
decided on going github because github
is is where developers are or who the
builders are and
it's i mean it's well known and i think
i think this is a start but we're not
saying that we always will uh remain
there but uh this is a good start and we
try to to we even developed a bot a
github bot to help in these discussions
of grand shares where the bot will post
oh this is the proposal these are the
intents of the proposal like this is our
this is like the
the like the encoded transaction that
will be made uh when if the proposal
will will will
you know will be executed let's say
and uh you know the bot also will will
let people know oh someone endorsed this
proposal or yeah guys look this this
proposal is in installed like
nobody's discussing for five days but
it's already endorsed can you please
discuss this this kind of like things
which helps in the in the whole
off-chain process awesome i'm cognizant
of everyone's time so i only have a
couple more questions
something i did want to pull on though
so grant shares is for anyone to apply
for the funding limit currently is fifty
thousand dollars in applications so
if you're a developer or a marketer or
you're starting a business that's going
to integrate neo and you're still at
kind of like that smaller scale
grassroots level this is the perfect
avenue to go through if you have
a larger scope then obviously you want
to speak with neo foundation so that's
who
grant shares is for but another thing i
wanted to pull on from your guys's ears
is the composability of the architecture
that you created
so
what were some of the considerations
that you guys had uh thinking about
people who might integrate the
architecture and the code that of the
grant shares dow
into their dapps or into their dows
moving forward so what what do you guys
envision
others using your open source code
for other projects moving forward yeah
that's good point i mean we we started
implementing this not
only with grant shares in mind i think
the contracts are are a bit more generic
if for example
like a proposal can be can be anything a
proposal cannot only be uh whatever
actions the grand shares contracts um
support but it can you you can call
anything that lives on the blockchain
with a proposal and uh you can do
multiple calls you could you could do
swaps um
into different chains and things like
that
and um so so that's where
where we hope that the grant shares
smart contracts and that the
infrastructure we built can be reused by
other people and of course if we had
more time
i would like to
like even unpack
the contracts more and and like get out
features into separate contracts and
kind of have even a more modular um
architecture
that that people could be
that people could use already like to
maybe deploy some features on chain and
and they can be used by different
projects um using the same kind of
library code on chain
um helping them to to vote um deploying
different voting strategies for example
um that people don't have to put that
stuff in their own contracts
much more could be done in that
direction and grandchild is just the
as it is now just the first step yeah we
have we have to we have to hold
ourselves a bit uh on because we have so
many ideas and so many things that we
could we could do and make uh things
generic and for for other use cases but
then we say okay let's let's stop it
here let's
let's solve one problem at a time and um
but i think it's already it's already
modular but not super modular let's put
this way i think one of the
one of the things that people might look
at is our two contracts we have a
governance contract and we have a
treasury contract and those are being
audited as we speak um and this is this
is this is a really good sign because
when you have a code like which is
audited um and uh people have
many eyes on it um in the point
production that people could could take
this and fork it and to do their modify
of course modify a bit and then
do their own dials in the in the new
ecosystem for example or or take this
model and go to other ecosystems no
problem
it's already generic of course we can do
way more but um for for now we visit
that people will fork it in and adapt
and then the the you know the whole
ecosystem will progress over time
awesome i want to
wrap up this conversation by asking uh a
question that i plan on asking every
guest who joins the podcast
what does the smart economy mean to you
to me it means
more efficient allocation of funds
and
can i make something else up no i'll
leave it with that
you see you like i always think about
efficiency
and efficiency also applies to
like politics so when it's about voting
that can also be more efficient meaning
also including or not excluding certain
groups um yeah these kind of things i
think we shared the same uh cloud like
efficiency is a
is a point there but it's a smart
economy to me
is something that we should have in our
society already but
sometimes
i mean in most of
the countries and in the democracies
that we live we we don't have but is to
have an economy for
the common good
that the common good for like for
everyone it's it's something that people
progress uh as a whole i know that this
is very idealistic to say it like this
and and you know maybe this doesn't
happen like always and uh you know
we live in a capitalism and i understand
that but um ultimately we have to care
about others in in our community so we
have to progress uh together i don't
think that there's a wrong answer
because the smart economy could be
digitizing assets to creating more
efficient ways for voting to happen so
that's kind of why i want to end each
interview on such a broad
question because it kind of helps
highlight the way that different people
think about issues so i want to thank
you guys
a ton for
for joining the first series of the
newly revamped smart economy podcast to
talk about dows and to share your
experience with grant shares and
to help others learn a little bit more
about how they can expect to interact
with grant shares and to and for
developers to learn how they can
integrate the code into their future
dapps so thanks a lot for all the hard
work that you guys have done
sometimes i know it can feel thankless
uh especially with like anons
demanding things online but it's really
cool to see this infrastructure land on
neo and uh i'm really excited to
have been able to talk to you guys to
share a little bit more about that
thanks dylan thanks a lot for this
conversation and i'll just ask the
audience to go to uh grand chairs or io
and please sign up there and uh
you can stay tuned for what will come
next thank you guys thank you it was a
pleasure awesome well looking forward to
chatting with you guys soon and until
then have a good one
well
what did you think of that conversation
i thought it was really interesting to
hear about the life cycle process of
proposing a project to the grant chairs
dow from inception to the distribution
of funding i'm really looking forward to
following along the upcoming github
conversations for future proposals
and future grant seekers should keep an
eye out for the upcoming launch of the
grant shares dapp
with that i want to thank you so much
for taking the time to listen to the
smart economy podcast
if you liked what you heard and want to
support the show please keep neo news
today in mind when voting for your neo
council representative as part of neo's
governance process
we appreciate you we look forward to
catching you next time